

p2pi                                                           M. Barnes
Internet-Draft                                              B. McCormick
Intended status: Informational                                    Nortel
Expires: November 10, 2008                                   May 9, 2008


               Peer to Peer Infrastructure Considerations
                     draft-barnes-p2pi-workshop-00

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on November 10, 2008.

Abstract

   This is a position paper as input to the Peer to Peer (P2P)
   Infrastructure Workshop.  It describes some of the most common
   concerns associated with potential congestion on the Internet due to
   P2P applications.  The document makes some very general
   recommendations to ameliorate potential problems.










Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
   2.  Position Overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
   3.  Other Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
   4.  Summary of Recommendations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
   5.  Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
   6.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
   Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7
   Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements  . . . . . . . . . . 8









































Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


1.  Introduction

   This document describes some of the most common concerns associated
   with potential congestion on the Internet due to P2P applications.
   The document makes some recommendations to ameliorate potential
   problems.

   P2P applications are usually running within a user's home network.
   They communicate directly with other instances of the same
   applications running on other home networks.  Popular P2P
   applications will transfer data with dozens of other instances at
   high and sustained bit rates for sharing large files such as
   operation system distributions, popular TV shows and movies.  The
   volume of data being shared by P2P users is often sufficient to cause
   congestion on Internet Service Provider's (ISP's) access networks.
   ISPs look for solutions to the congestion problem.  Figure 1 shows
   some sample P2P applications.


-----------
| Home    |
| Network |-----------------|
-----------                 |
      |                     |
---------------             |
|     P2P     |             |    DPI and "traffic shaping"
| Application |             |    occurs in the ISP access network today
---------------             |
                            |
                         -----------     ------------    -----------
                         |   ISP   |-----| Internet |    |   ISP   |
                         | Access  |     | Backbone |----| Access  |
                         | Network |     ------------    | Network |
                         -----------                     -----------
                            |                                 |
-----------                 |                             -----------
| Home    |------------------                             | Home    |
| Network |                                               | Network |
-----------                                               -----------
     |                                                          |
---------------                                          ---------------
|     P2P     |                                          |     P2P     |
| Application |                                          | Application |
---------------                                          ---------------







Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


                        Figure 1: P2P Applications

   This document is intended to provoke discussion on the concepts,
   theories and recommendations described herein.


2.  Position Overview

   P2P traffic is congesting the internet.  As applications such as
   video calls gain momentum on the public internet, as opposed to
   managed networks, P2P traffic, and in fact HTTP [RFC2616] traffic,
   will impact the quality of real time streaming data including voice,
   video and gaming.

   Many ISPs are engaging in some form of traffic prioritization by way
   of traffic shaping P2P and other traffic on their networks.  These
   methods are often based on deep packet inspection (DPI) and are of
   limited long term use as they are based on parsing packet headers,
   etc.  These methods can be subverted without much work.

   Packet prioritization is a proven solution to maintaining Quality of
   Service (QoS) for delay sensitive traffic and has been widely
   deployed on wireless and managed networks.  However, users will abuse
   packet prioritization if they have no motivation to behave correctly.
   Similarly, ISP peering, where priority packets transit a 3rd party
   network, has no motivation to respect packet priority.

   Unless ISPs are willing to invest indefinitely in network capacity
   build out, there needs to be some incentive to avoid the high levels
   of traffic generated by users at the far end of the spectrum.
   Alternatively, real time applications will become more unreliable.

   Carriers and vendors need to deploy DiffServ Code Point (DSCP)
   [RFC2474] [RFC2475] enabled equipment.  User pricing agreements need
   to charge a premium for real time traffic priorities and provide a
   discount for high volume best effort priorities, as do peering
   agreements.


3.  Other Considerations

   In general there seem to be four possible outcomes to continuing
   Internet growth:

      a.  Without sufficient network build out and no traffic
      prioritization, Internet congestion increases until real time
      applications no longer function and non-real time applications are
      impacted.



Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


      b.  Network build out continues at a rate so that network
      congestion is a thing of the past and no traffic prioritization is
      necessary.
      c.  Networks implement traffic prioritization and charge premiums
      for real time traffic.  Similarly, discounts could be offered for
      low priority traffic.
      d.  Operators exercise increasing levels of control over their
      access networks and find means to restrict traffic to white listed
      traffic approved by the operator.
      e.  Networks implement a model whereby they charge equally
      independent of the application, but may simply charge per volume
      of packets.

   In the ideal world, option b) would take place.  However, option b)
   doesn't provide any clear means for operators to grow, or even
   maintain, their business model.  Deploying more capacity at the edge
   of the Internet is expensive and operators will expect to have some
   direct value proposition for this activity.

   Options a) and d) would change the internet in ways that limit
   innovation and growth and we consider them to be wholly undesirable.

   Option e) is already implemented by some ISPs today.  Although, it is
   not uncommon for ISPs to also offer unlimited packages, thus this
   model may not be as effective overall.  In cases where there is
   sufficient network capacity, charging by volume could be used to
   manage aggregate volume.

   Option c), may be a more pragmatic choice in cases where there may be
   limitations to network capacity.

   Many operators today are implementing deep packet inspection as a
   means of prioritizing traffic on their networks.  However, deep
   packet inspection has limited long term viability.  It is one thing
   to identify traffic based on packet headers, it's another thing
   entirely to try and determine if peer to peer traffic is tunnelled
   inside, for example, jpeg images transported on HTTP.

   More complex approaches could be applied to detect peer to peer
   traffic, such as traffic analysis.  Home networks with dozens of
   simultaneous connections to other home networks are probably engaging
   in peer to peer applications.  This method of traffic prioritization
   would be more difficult to subvert, however it would also be more
   difficult to implement at line speeds.

   Rather than relying on such ad hoc methods of traffic prioritization,
   it would be better to use designed in traffic prioritization such as
   DSCP.  This approach also allows operators to charge for use and will



Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


   help address public perception that traffic shaping is bad.

   Peer to peer traffic has been growing steadily for the last 10 years
   and shows no signs of slowing.  P2P has been responsible for
   significant innovation in the application space, and thus is likely
   to continue to be very popular.

   Any type of bulk data transfer will impact real-time traffic.
   There's no reason that FTP and HTTP transfers should not be subject
   to a prioritization mechanism.  P2P applications tend to be worse
   today because it is easy for users to leave them running 24/7.
   However, there's nothing to stop a user from running a bot program
   which downloads high volumes of traffic from HTTP or FTP servers.

   Network operators have already lost control of the "pipe".  It's
   unreasonable for an operator to expect to be able to directly control
   the applications that are transferring data over their network.
   Telephone companies today are not allowed to control the type of
   traffic over their network.  Imagine a telephone company
   implementing, for example, an anti-Italian or anti-Portuguese policy
   and dropping all calls in these languages!  Similarly, ISPs should
   not be in a position to white list or black list specific types of
   traffic.


4.  Summary of Recommendations

   At this point, the authors do not see specific new protocol work
   related to this problem in IETF.  However, the authors suggest that
   using the input and discussion from the p2pi workshop, guidelines and
   recommendations, perhaps even a Best Current Practice [RFC2026] would
   be of benefit to the community.


5.  Acknowledgements

   The authors appreciate the input and comments from Francois Audet and
   Marcus Leech.


6.  Informative References

   [RFC2026]  Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision
              3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, October 1996.

   [RFC2474]  Nichols, K., Blake, S., Baker, F., and D. Black,
              "Definition of the Differentiated Services Field (DS
              Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 Headers", RFC 2474,



Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


              December 1998.

   [RFC2475]  Blake, S., Black, D., Carlson, M., Davies, E., Wang, Z.,
              and W. Weiss, "An Architecture for Differentiated
              Services", RFC 2475, December 1998.

   [RFC2616]  Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H.,
              Masinter, L., Leach, P., and T. Berners-Lee, "Hypertext
              Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1", RFC 2616, June 1999.

   [RFC3168]  Ramakrishnan, K., Floyd, S., and D. Black, "The Addition
              of Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) to IP",
              RFC 3168, September 2001.

   [RFC3260]  Grossman, D., "New Terminology and Clarifications for
              Diffserv", RFC 3260, April 2002.


Authors' Addresses

   Mary Barnes
   Nortel
   2201 Lakeside Blvd
   Richardson, TX

   Email: mary.barnes@nortel.com


   Bill McCormick
   Nortel
   3500 CARLING AVENUE
   Ottawa, Ontario

   Email: billmcc@nortel.com

















Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft                    P2PI                          May 2008


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.











Barnes & McCormick      Expires November 10, 2008               [Page 8]



