


P2PI Workshop	David Sohn
Position Paper	Alissa Cooper
	Center for Democracy & Technology
	May 9, 2008



Peer-to-Peer Infrastructure Considerations


Abstract

This document provides a brief overview of considerations that should 
underlie any technical solutions to the congestion issues raised in 
the p2pi workshop.



1.  Background

The authors have actively participated in a range of public policy 
discussions and proceedings relating to congestion issues to be 
discussed in the p2pi workshop.  We appreciate and agree that debate 
about public policy concerns are generally out of scope for this 
workshop.  

We believe, however, that there are some public policy considerations 
that could provide helpful context for the workshop.  We are not at 
this time seeking to present this content orally at the workshop.

The below content is drawn from much more substantial discussions 
submitted to the U.S. Federal Communications Commission ("FCC").  See 
[CDT-FCC-Comments] and [CDT-FCC-Reply-Comments].


2.  Even Application of Network Management Practices

Our concern and involvement in this area has centered on the risk 
that certain network management tactics aimed at combating congestion 
could have the detrimental side effect of vesting network operators 
with a new level of  "gatekeeper" control over which applications 
will thrive and which will not.  In recent comments filed with the 
FCC, we offered several principles to guide network operators and 
policymakers as they consider questions relating to network 
management.  One such principle is that network management practices 
targeting congestion should be evenly applied.

Network management techniques may offer important tools for 
addressing bandwidth constraints, but techniques that put a network 
provider in the position to pick and choose among applications, 
services, or protocols Ð deciding which ones will be allowed to use 
how much bandwidth or which ones will be subject to limits Ð carry 
serious risk.  Once a network operator is in the business of 
selecting particular traffic for inferior treatment, there is the 
possibility of mixed motives, as choices between different tactics 
could be tinged by competitive considerations.  Innovators, 
meanwhile, would need to start worrying about whether and how the 
network operator might choose to target their applications.

These risks can be mitigated if network management techniques are 
based on objective criteria and applied evenly, so that all 
applications with similar bandwidth usage patterns receive similar 
treatment.  Alternatively, any technique that allows subscribers to 
select specific applications or content for special traffic handling 
should be benign; so long as the choice lies with the subscriber, 
there is no risk of the network operator playing favorites. 


3.  Other considerations

In addition to the above consideration, we raised two other important 
principles to the FCC:  first, that all congestion responses should 
adhere to well accepted technical standards, and second, that network 
operators be transparent with regard to what responses are taken.  
These points are discussed in greater detail in [CDT-FCC-Comments] 
and [CDT-FCC-Reply-Comments].

At a more general level, we believe that the rhetoric in the policy 
debate over congestion management techniques has often framed false 
choices, as if the only question were whether to support or oppose 
congestion management in the abstract.  This workshop offers the 
important opportunity to delve into the different technical 
approaches to congestion management and to consider the differences 
between them.  We believe that IETF is the right place to have this 
kind of technical discussion, and that this workshop and the work of 
the IETF may inform the future policy debate in important ways.
 

4.  References

   [CDT-FCC-Comments]
The Center for Democracy & Technology, "Comments of the 
Center for Democracy & Technology," Feb. 13, 2008, available 
at http://www.cdt.org/speech/20080213_FCC_comments.pdf.

   [CDT-FCC-Reply-Comments]
The Center for Democracy & Technology, "Reply Comments of the 
Center for Democracy & Technology," Feb. 28, 2008, available 
at http://www.cdt.org/speech/20080228_FCC_comments.pdf.



Authors' Addresses

   David Sohn, dsohn@cdt.org
   Alissa Cooper, acooper@cdt.org
   Center for Democracy & Technology
   1634 I Street, NW
   Washington, DC 20006
   +1-202-637-9800

