Network Working Group                                           J. Arkko
Internet-Draft                                                  Ericsson
Intended status: Informational                              May 27, 2008
Expires: November 28, 2008


     Incentives and Deployment Considerations for P2PI Solutions
                    draft-arkko-p2pi-incentives-00

Status of this Memo

  By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
  applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
  have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
  aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

  Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
  Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
  other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
  Drafts.

  Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
  and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
  time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
  material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

  The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
  http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

  The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
  http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

  This Internet-Draft will expire on November 28, 2008.

Abstract

  Several papers in this workshop have argued that there is a need to
  build new protocol mechanisms to accommodate peer-to-peer traffic in
  networks in the most efficient way and with minimal impact to other
  traffic.  This paper presents an analysis of such solutions from the
  point of view of the incentives of the different parties involved in
  peer-to-peer traffic.  The paper concludes that it is essential to
  understand the incentives in order to have a deployable solution.


1.  Introduction

  Peer-to-peer (P2P) networking has been cited as the leading consumer



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


  of network bandwidth in networks serving private subscribers.  This
  is by itself not a problem, as the network providers are in the
  business of providing a service to their customers, including the
  ones that employ P2P tools.  However, the issue is whether P2P
  traffic causes undue congestion and reduced level of service for
  other customers in the network [I-D.briscoe-tsvwg-relax-fairness].

  Historically, the Internet service provider market has developed for
  interactive services where the bandwidth requirements for each user
  vary significantly from over time.  This allowed the service
  providers to employ statistical multiplexing.  At the same time, the
  nominal link speeds have been a major factor in marketing Internet
  service.  But during the last few years, the nature of the traffic
  has changed from interactive to more always-on type traffic, for
  instance from P2P applications.  As a result, statistical
  multiplexing is no longer effective, and service providers are
  finding that a large sets of users are actually trying to utilize
  their full link speed at all times.  This is making the service
  providers either increase the capacity of their networks to match the
  changing traffic mix and increasingly high broadband service speeds,
  or find other ways to deal with the problems.

  It is important to see that these problems are not limited to P2P
  tools [P2PI.daigle].  Indeed, not even all P2P applications have
  these problems.  Some forms of video communication exhibit the same
  problems that large file sharing P2P applications do [P2PI.hardie].
  And as the Internet applications evolve, we expect to see new forms
  of traffic with these issues.  In the remainder of this paper, we
  assume any bandwidth-intensive, semi-permanently running application
  that may or may not attempt to be friendly with other network usage.

  The fairness problem can present itself in various ways.  For
  instance, users opening multiple transport sessions may get a
  disproportionate share of a congested link.  Permanent, high
  bandwidth sessions may slow down the ramp-up of short-term,
  interactive sessions.  Or some users may utilize a transit link far
  more than others, resulting in these users gaining a larger share of
  the transit costs that the provider has to pay.

  These problems are not just abstract issues.  There has been highly
  publicized debates about what forms of traffic management are
  acceptable for network providers.  In reality, network providers
  already employ a number of techniques [P2PI.tschofenig].  Solutions
  addressing issues in this space have been worked on by network
  providers, vendors, and researchers.  This paper looks at the
  different classes of solutions in Section 2 and analyzes them based
  on the incentives of the involved parties in Section 3.  The key
  issue is finding a solution that provides immediate benefits to



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


  everyone who needs to add new mechanisms or equipment.  Another key
  issue is the information available to different parties.  This leads
  us to make conclusions in Section 4.


2.  Solution Classes

  A number of solutions have already been deployed to mitigate issues
  caused by the changed traffic pattern.  Other solutions are actively
  being worked on.  We divide the solutions in three rough classes,
  based partially on similar classifications in [P2PI.tschofenig]
  [P2PI.moncaster]:

  Contractual

     These solutions are based on choosing pricing models and
     contractual conditions that persuade users to avoid always-on
     traffic.  For instance, volume-based accounting can be employed,
     or the contracts of the heaviest users can be discontinued.

  Voluntary changes in applications

     These solutions are based on some change of behaviour in the
     applications, leading to taking other users better into account,
     reducing congestion or the use of expensive links, and so on.

     Some of the solutions in this category include:

     *  Indicating the desired quality of service, so that interactive
        and always-on applications can be distinguished in the network
        [P2PI.moncaster].  This assumes that there is a basic level of
        quality of service filtering capabilities in the network.

     *  Making decisions with better information about the network
        topology and cost.  For instance, algorithms that P2P
        applications use to determine which peers to talk to can
        probably be improved.  One particular class of improvements
        involves "oracles" in the service provider network to help
        applications determine the most likely peers with good
        connectivity.  For instance, peers that are in the local
        service provider network vs. behind an expensive and/or
        congested transit service provider.

     *  New congestion control mechanisms.  For instance, BitTorrent
        has gotten positive results from their new algorithm
        [P2PI.shalunov].  Another example is Bob Briscoe's re-ECN
        mechanism [I-D.briscoe-tsvwg-re-ecn-tcp], which allows hosts
        and networks to co-operate in the treatment of congestion, and



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


        allows networks to treat different users in a fair manner.

  Network-based mechanisms

     These mechanisms are implemented solely in the network.  Examples
     include:

     *  Prioritization, slowdown, or even blocking of traffic based on
        packet header information.  Relatively complicated designs that
        peek further into the packet, Deep Packet Inspection (DPI) have
        also been deployed.  Priorities can also be set based on user
        accounting information, e.g., traffic shaping heavy users
        during a rush hour.

     *  Changing the "scheduling algorithm", by attempting to complete
        the short jobs first everyone's performance will improve.
        Similar techniques as discussed above are needed to determine
        which jobs are "short" and "long", however.

     *  Building caches and peer-to-peer network components in the
        service provider network.


3.  Incentives

  This section discusses motives, deployment considerations, and how
  information available to the different parties affects the
  incentives.

3.1.  Motives

  For any solution to be adopted the involved parties have to have
  compatible motives.  This is not always trivial, because the parties
  may either optimize for different goals, or because there is room for
  malicious behaviour.

  For instance, one type of a quality-of-service solution involves
  voluntary marking of packets by applications and subsequent
  differentiated treatment of these packets by the network.  In this
  case the motives of well-behaving users and service providers are
  similar: both want interactive applications to be given more
  priority, while allowing always-on batch applications to run in the
  background, and take as much bandwidth as is available.  However, if
  the prioritization happens across multiple users, this also implies
  that a lower priority marking has the potential to reduce the user's
  share of the overall throughput.  Clever users can distort the system
  by claiming to run only interactive applications.  A tragedy of the
  commons follows: The optimal strategy from the point of view of the



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


  entire group of users would be to correctly classify traffic.  But
  from the point of an individual user a better strategy would be to
  lie.

  Note that no misbehaviour is needed from a human user for this to
  happen.  It is enough that the user runs applications that do this.
  And if such applications appear to produce better results than other
  applications, the user has an incentive to use them.  Having said
  this, past experience tells us that a vast majority of networking
  software plays by the rules.  Attempts to improve or bypass TCP
  congestion control are relatively rare, for instance.

  An example where the motives themselves may be conflict is the co-
  operation between P2P applications and service providers to determine
  the "best" peers to connect to.  The definition of "best" from the
  P2P client perspective is a peer that has the highest possible actual
  transfer rate.  But the service provider is more interested in
  minimization of their costs and overall network congestion.  This may
  or may not coincide with the client's desires.  For instance, a
  service provider may prefer a local peer with a slow access link over
  a remote peer that is connected via an expensive transit connection.

  While not part of the incentives, the available information to the
  different parties plays an interesting role as well.  It can be
  expected that P2P nodes are capable of measuring actual transfer
  rates across the end-to-end path, including the behaviour of the end
  systems.  P2P applications might even be able to accumulate this
  information from multiple clients and over time.  In contrast, the
  service provider network at its basic form would be limited to
  understanding the topology and link speeds.  More advanced service
  provider networks may be capable of traffic-engineering and tracking
  congestion in different parts of their network.  However, they are
  fundamentally incapable of measuring end systems or end-to-end
  behaviour in paths that cross multiple networks.

  As a result of the motive conflict and lack of information, any
  "oracle" style design [RIPE.feldmann] needs to play a fairly limited
  role in supplying additional information to the P2P applications.
  Information from the service provider network can help make an
  initial guess or to narrow the search for the best peer.  But it
  cannot replace or govern the overall decision that the P2P
  application needs to make on its own.

  Having basic support for peer selection in the P2P applications also
  allows the service providers to focus on improvements in their own
  network, as opposed to attempting to build tools that try to guide
  selection of peers across multiple networks.  As long as the oracle
  focuses on increasing the number of peers within the service



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


  provider's network, the algorithms in P2P applications can take care
  of optimizing the connectivity to peers in other networks.

3.2.  Deployment Considerations

  Another important consideration is what needs to change in order for
  a particular solution to be deployed.  Some solutions can be deployed
  unilaterally, some require coordinated action.  The coordination may
  act as a disincentive to build support for a particular solution.
  For instance, P2P application developers do not invest time in
  building support for contacting an oracle in the service provider
  network until it becomes likely that such oracles can actually used
  in some fraction of networks; the limited development resources are
  better invested in actions that the developers are in full control of
  -- for instance in improved peer selection algorithms that do not
  depend on new infrastructure nodes.  Similarly, service providers do
  not invest in an oracle until there is software that actually uses
  it.

  This problem affects the following types of solutions:

  o  Quality of service marking in the host and priority treatment in
     the network.

  o  Network-assisted P2P peer selection.

  o  Network-assisted congestion control mechanisms.

3.3.  Availability of Information

  Section 3.1 discussed how available information affects the way best
  peer selection can be made to work.  But there are other aspects of
  information availability as well.  Specifically, when networks have
  unilaterally implemented mechanisms that do not align with the
  motives of P2P applications, the applications have employed
  information hiding in order to prevent the network from making non-
  desireable prioritization decisions for them.  Eric Rescorla makes
  the argument that ultimately P2P traffic can be secured and made to
  resemble other types of traffic, such as VPN traffic.  This makes it
  very hard for the network to de-prioritize or modify P2P traffic
  [P2PI.rescorla].  It is interesting that many of the solutions in
  this workshop attempt to increase the amount of information available
  to the parties, while in reality the converse seems to happen.

  We would like to suggest that this trend can only be reversed if the
  motives becomes more aligned between the players.  That is, no P2P
  application will participate in a system designed to restrict P2P
  traffic.  But they may participate in systems that attempt to



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


  optimize P2P traffic.


4.  Conclusions

  The right incentives are a key to the successful standardization and
  deployment of any solution in this space.  Based on our analysis, we
  would like to suggest that the following avenues for IETF
  documentation and standards be looked at:

  o  Improved and/or standardized peer selection algorithms.  These can
     be deployed unilaterally by application developers.

  o  Co-operative designs where service provider networks supply
     additional information that helps the P2P applications to make a
     better initial selection of peers.  This should only be done as a
     sub-item to the above one; service provider networks do not have
     sufficient information or incentives to make the full decision,
     and attempting to do so would dissuade the P2P applications from
     using such a system.

  o  Improved and/or standardized congestion control mechanisms
     suitable for P2P and other "always-on" applications.  Again, these
     can be deployed unilaterally, and IETF can help ensure they
     algorithms are safe for other traffic in the Internet.  Note the
     difference to quality of service mechanisms that typically require
     deployment at both ends; the quality of service mechanisms would
     in many ways be the right solution for this problem, but it is
     hard to get them deployed and used due to the issues mentioned
     earlier in this paper.

     Still, both the co-operative designs and congestion control
     mechanisms depend on the interest of the P2P application
     developers and users.  The primary incentive from their
     perspective is the desire to be nice for the user's other traffic.

  In any case, these items are tactical, short-term efforts.  There is
  an associated longer-term issue where the market place has to learn
  to provide services without relying on statistical multiplexing.
  Ultimately, if there is demand for communication services
  (interactive or not) it should be met with an offering that allows
  providers to build the infrastructure needed to support it, and still
  be profitable.  Pricing models and service packaging has perhaps even
  more to do with this than technical solutions.







Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


Appendix A.  Acknowledgments

  The author would like to thank Magnus Westerlund and Gonzalo
  Camarillo for interesting discussions in this problem space.


5.  Informative References

  [I-D.briscoe-tsvwg-relax-fairness]
             Briscoe, B., Moncaster, T., and A. Burness, "Problem
             Statement: We Don't Have To Do Fairness Ourselves",
             draft-briscoe-tsvwg-relax-fairness-00 (work in progress),
             November 2007.

  [P2PI.daigle]
             Daigle, L., "Defining Success: Questions for the Future of
             the Internet and Bandwidth-Intensive Activities", P2PI
             position paper LLD-P2P-Position-May15.pdf, May 2008.

  [P2PI.tschofenig]
             Tschofenig, H. and M. Matuszewski, "Dealing with P2P
             Traffic in an Operator Network: State of the Art", P2PI
             position paper p2p-state-of-the-art.pdf, May 2008.

  [P2PI.hardie]
             Hardie, T., "Peer-to-peer Traffic and "Unattended
             Consequences", P2PI position paper hardie - p2pi position
             paper.rtf, May 2008.

  [P2PI.rescorla]
             Rescorla, E., "Notes on P2P Blocking and Evasion", P2PI
             position paper rescorla-p2pi.pdf, May 2008.

  [P2PI.shalunov]
             Shalunov, S., "Users want P2P, we make it work", P2PI
             position paper BitTorrent-Position-IETF-P2P.pdf, May 2008.

  [P2PI.moncaster]
             Moncaster, T., Briscoe, B., and L. Burness, "Is There a
             Problem with Peer-to-peer Traffic", P2PI position paper Is
             There a Problem with Peer-to-Peer Traffic.pdf, May 2008.

  [RIPE.feldmann]
             Feldmann, A., "ISP-Aided Neighbor Selection in P2P
             Systems", RIPE presentation at RIPE-56, Berlin, May 2008.

  [I-D.briscoe-tsvwg-re-ecn-tcp]
             Briscoe, B., "Re-ECN: Adding Accountability for Causing



Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


             Congestion to TCP/IP", draft-briscoe-tsvwg-re-ecn-tcp-04
             (work in progress), July 2007.


Author's Address

  Jari Arkko
  Ericsson
  Jorvas  02420
  Finland

  Email: jari.arkko@piuha.net







































Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008               [Page 9]

Internet-Draft             P2P and Incentives                   May 2008


Full Copyright Statement

  Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

  This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
  contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
  retain all their rights.

  This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
  "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
  OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
  THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
  OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
  THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
  WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Intellectual Property

  The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
  Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
  pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
  this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
  might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
  made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
  on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
  found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

  Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
  assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
  attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
  such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
  specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
  http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

  The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
  copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
  rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
  this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
  ietf-ipr@ietf.org.











Arkko                   Expires November 28, 2008              [Page 10]

