Peer Selection Guidance

Bruce Davie, Stefano Previdi, Jan Medved, and Albert Tian

Cisco Systems

{bdavie,sprevidi,jmedved,altian}@cisco.com

May 7, 2008

One approach to improving the relationship between P2P applications
and service provider infrastructure is to attempt to influence the way
in which P2P clients select their peers. It is intuitively obvious
that if a P2P client has a choice of many alternative peers from which
to download a single piece of content, for example, then the precise
choice of peer could have a significant effect on both the performance
seen by the client and the effect on the SP infrastructure of carrying
the traffic from one peer to another. In particular, choosing a peer
that is connected to the same service provider as the downloading
client can clearly save the service provider from consuming bandwidth
on a (possibly costly or bandwidth-constrained) inter-provider
link. Similarly, if a client chooses a peer that is not only connected
to the same provider but is also in some sense "nearby", then it may
reduce the consumption of network resources by the P2P traffic while
also perhaps improving the performance of the P2P application. (There
are clearly many different interpretations of what it means to be
"nearby", including geographic distance, latency, distance in a
synthetic co-ordinate space, among others.)

The effect of neighbor or peer selection on the performance of
overlays and peer-to-peer applications has been extensively studied
(e.g. [1-3, 6]). Some of this work has also shown that a possible
win-win situation exists: picking peers who are nearby can
simultaneously improve application performance and lower utilization
of ISP resources (especially inter-provider links).

It has recently been suggested [3-5] that an open, standardized
interface could be provided between clients and ISPs to address the
problem of efficient peer selection. There are already a range of
competing (or complementary) approaches to defining such an
interface. For example, [3] proposes an approach in which clients
receive information from the ISP about the AS and the PoP (point of
presence) of the various candidates for peering in a P2P overlay. We
believe that an alternative approach that gives away less information
about service provider topology may be preferable (because service
providers typically try to keep the details of their network
topologies secret for commercial reasons). Thus we favor an interface
in which an ISP could simply rank a set of candidate peers from most
suitable to least suitable, using some combination of the ISP’s own
topological data, knowledge of traffic or congestion, and policy
information. That ranking could be provided to clients who could then
use it to influence peer selection for P2P or other applications. Such
a ranking has general utility while keeping provider topology private.

We observe that "clients" in this context could include individual
peers, or could be nodes with specialized roles in the P2P application
such as "trackers". Likewise, a range of different types of device
could provide the service provider side of the proposed interface.

At this stage, we believe it is a suitable time for the IETF to gather
input from the relevant stakeholders — ISPs, P2P application developers,
equipment vendors, etc. - regarding the requirements for a standard
interface between P2P applications and network providers. As observed
in [4], this work could have quite broad scope beyond the P2P
space. Given the wide range of different types of information that
could be passed across this interface, it may be necessary to define a
minimal interface with a general mechanism for extensibility. In any
case, this appears to be a manageable subset of the larger problem
space posed by the prevalence of P2P apps. It is also a problem space
in which a standards effort by the IETF could reach a useful consensus
fairly quickly, with a result that would be beneficial to ISPs, P2P
developers and end users.

References
[1] Bindal, R., Cao, P., Chan, W., Medved, J., Suwala, G., Bates,
T. and Zhang, A. Improving Traffic Locality in BitTorrent via Biased
Neighbor Selection, in 26th IEEE International Conference on
Distributed Computing Systems ICDCS 2006.

[2] Koo, S., Kannan, K and Lee, C. On neighbor-selection strategy in
hybrid peer-to- peer networks, in Future Gener. Comput. Syst., July
2006.

[3] Xie, H., Krishnamurthy, A., Silberschatz, A., and R. Yang, P4P:
Explicit Communications for Cooperative Control Between P2P and
Network Providers, http://www.dcia.info/documents/P4P Overview.pdf.

[4] Bonaventure, O, Saucez, D. and Donnet, B. The case for an informed
path selection service, work in progress,
draft-bonaventure-informed-path-selection-00.txt, February 2008.

[5] Marocco, E. and Gurbani, V. Application-Layer Traffic Optimization
(ALTO) Problem Statement, work in progress,
draft-marocco-alto-problem-statement-00, April 2008.

[6] Aggarwal, V., Feldmann, A., and C. Scheideler, Can ISPs and P2P
systems co-operate for improved performance?, ACM SIGCOMM Computer
Communications Review Volume 37, Number 3, July 2007.