                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             



P2PI                                                            D. Bryan
Internet-Draft                              SIPeerior Technologies, Inc.
Intended status: Informational                                S. Dawkins
Expires: November 9, 2008                                   Huawei (USA)
                                                             B. Lowekamp
                                               SIPeerior; William & Mary
                                                                 E. Shim
                                                           Locus Telecom
                                                             May 8, 2008


Infrastructure-related Attributes of Application Scenarios for Peer-to-
               Peer Session Initiation Protocol (P2PSIP)

Abstract

   This document points out previous work in P2PSIP that analyzed
   attributes of various "application scenarios".  Several of these
   attributes reflect requirements for underlying infrastructure
   support.  This document suggests that work on P2P Infrastructure take
   the application scenarios analysis as a starting point.


1.  Infrastructure Attributes for P2PSIP Application Scenarios

   Several individuals have been analyzing "application scenarios" ("use
   cases" in previous versions of the drafts) in the P2PSIP working
   group [I-D.bryan-p2psip-app-scenarios].  Each application scenario is
   characterized by a number of attributes - for example, the number of
   peers within a single overlay.

   Many of these attributes have implications for the underlying
   infrastructure - for example, whether multicast is required (and if
   so, whether multicast is required at the link layer, IP layer, or
   application layer).

   We hope to explain the current state of our application scenarios
   analysis at the P2PI workshop.

   We hope to get feedback from the workshop about additional
   application scenarios being considered, and about any attributes that
   seem to be important for this analysis.

   We hope to understand how any work initiated under P2PI might affect
   ongoing work in P2PSIP, and vice versa.


2.  Application Scenario Attributes

   This is the complete attribute list used in
   [I-D.bryan-p2psip-app-scenarios].  It's included here unchanged for
   ease of reference.  Attributes that *likely* have implications for
   underlying infrastructure are tagged with a leading "**".

   Application Scenario:  The name of an application scenario
         (previously called a "use case").
   Section in Draft:  A cross-reference to the section number in this
         draft where the application scenario is described.
   Number of Peers:  The number of peers that will be active in an
         overlay at any given point in time.
   Number of Users:  The number of users that will be served by an
         overlay at any given point in time.
         Note that if there are more users than peers, this implies that
         some client protocol is required, whether "client protocol" is
         a P2PSIP client protocol or the SIP protocol (if the P2PSIP
         overlay is also providing RFC 3263 [RFC3263]-style routing for
         unmodified SIP clients).
   Overlay spans administrative domains:  Whether the overlay spans
         across multiple physical network administrative domains.  If
         "yes", this makes IP multicast and centralized operations and
         management unlikely.
   ** Multicast Available:  Whether "application-level multicast", "IP
         multicast", or "link multicast" may be available for a typical
         overlay.
         Note that these are ordered - link multicast implies IP
         multicast could be available, and IP multicast implies
         application-level multicast could be available.
   P2P Client Support:  Whether the overlay need to support a P2P Client
         protocol, i.e., whether the overlay contains P2P Clients as
         well as Peers.
   ** Interoperation with CS-SIP:  Whether the overlay must also
         interact with legacy SIP clients and SIP proxies.
         Note that one or more peers in the overlay may also act as PSTN
         gateways.
   ** Non-stop Operation:  Whether this application scenarios allows the
         overlay to become unavailable for periods of time (for example,
         could an overlay stop operating in order to change DHT
         algorithms, or would the overlay have to support two DHT
         algorithms in "ships in the night" mode?)
   ** Centralized Operations and Management:  Whether any centralized
         operations/management entity is responsible for successful
         operation of the overlay.
   ** Centralized ID Control:  Whether ID assignment by central
         authority is required within an overlay (basically, whether the
         overlay can be Sybil-attacked - the theory is that if IDs are
         controlled by a centralized entity, overlay operators simply
         remove misbehaving users from the authorization registry).
   Supports Anonymous Users:  Whether this application scenario allows
         users to connect to an overlay without providing any identity.
   ** Carrier-Class Robustness:  Whether the overlay must provide
         reliable storage and retrieval in the face of node failure.
   ** NATs within a single overlay  Whether the peer protocol must
         expect to perform NAT traversal as part of normal operation.
   ** DNS available:  Whether DNS is available so that peers may perform
         DNS lookups as part of the overlay JOIN operation.
   ** End-to-end SIP Encryption:  Whether this application scenario
         requires SIP traffic between two peers to be encrypted, so SIP
         requests and responses are not visible to intermediate peers
         (peers that forward traffic between two peers that aren't
         directly connected).  In these cases, hop-by-hop TLS
         encryption, although appropriate when traversing trusted SIP
         Proxies, is not appropriate when traversing untrusted P2PSIP
         Peers.


5.  Normative References

   [I-D.bryan-p2psip-app-scenarios]
              Bryan, D., Shim, E., Lowekamp, B., and S. Dawkins,
              "Application Scenarios for Peer-to-Peer Session Initiation
              Protocol  (P2PSIP)", draft-bryan-p2psip-app-scenarios-00
              (work in progress), November 2007.

   [RFC3261]  Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston,
              A., Peterson, J., Sparks, R., Handley, M., and E.
              Schooler, "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol", RFC 3261,
              June 2002.

   [RFC3263]  Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne, "Session Initiation
              Protocol (SIP): Locating SIP Servers", RFC 3263,
              June 2002.


Authors' Addresses

   David A. Bryan
   SIPeerior Technologies, Inc.
   3000 Easter Circle
   Williamsburg, VA  23188
   USA

   Phone: +1 757 565 0101
   Email: dbryan@sipeerior.com


   Spencer Dawkins
   Huawei Technologies (USA)
   1547 Rivercrest Blvd.
   Allen, TX  75002
   USA

   Phone: +1 214 755 3870
   Email: spencer@mcsr-labs.org


   Bruce B. Lowekamp
   SIPeerior; William & Mary
   3000 Easter Circle
   Williamsburg, VA  23188
   USA

   Phone: +1 757 565 0101
   Email: lowekamp@sipeerior.com


   Eunsoo Shim
   Locus Telecommunications, Inc.
   2200 Fletcher Ave. 6th FL
   Fort Lee, NJ  07024
   USA

   Email: eunsoo@locus.net