Autonomic Networking Integrated Model and Approach (ANIMA)
----------------------------------------------------------

Current Status: Proposed WG

Assigned Area Director:
  Benoit Claise

Mailing list
  Address: anima@ietf.org
  To Subscribe: http://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/anima
  Archive: http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/anima/

Charter:

[background] 
Autonomic networking refers to the self-managing characteristics of distributed network elements,
adapting to unpredictable changes while hiding intrinsic complexity from operators and users. It
often involves closed-loop control. An autonomic function works in a distributed way across 
various network elements, but allowing central guidance and reporting, and co-existence with
non-autonomic methods of management. Elements of autonomic functions already exist today, for example 
aspects of IGP routing protocols such as OSPF, although their initial configuration process
is not autonomic. However, all such functions today have their own discovery, transport, messaging
and security mechanisms as well as non-autonomic management interfaces. The general objective
of this working group is to enable the progressive introduction of autonomic behaviors
into operational networks, as well as reusable autonomic network infrastructure.

[previous work] 
To transform the somewhat abstract Autonomic Networking concept into concrete, realisable
requirements, the first stage, undertaken in the Network Management Research Group (NMRG)
of the IRTF, was to define terminology and design goals, and to derive a high-level gap
analysis. The definitions and design goals, as well as a simple architecture model are
defined in draft-irtf-nmrg-autonomic-network-definitions; the gap analysis for AN is
described in draft-irtf-nmrg-an-gap-analysis. The UCAN BoF at IETF 90 discussed use
cases and some existing solutions. All the above work serves as a baseline for this working
group.

[problem statement]
Certain network functions are today implemented in a distributed way, and new distributed 
network functions keep being developed. Currently, every distributed function defines its 
own way to identify nodes, to communicate, discover and negotiate between nodes, and to 
secure the interactions: there is no common infrastructure for distributed functions. 
Consequently, network administrators are required to define and configure node identities,
security schemes, etc, for each distributed mechanism separately. Vendors need to implement 
parallel mechanisms for similar tasks. This leads to inefficiencies. Additionally, central
configuration, management and optimisation of operational device configurations is expensive,
tedious, and prone to human error. A simple example is assigning address prefixes to network
segments in a large and constantly changing network. Similarly, repair or bypassing of faults
requires human intervention and causes significant down time. Autonomic networking is intended
to mitigate this duplication of similar mechanisms and heavy dependency on human actions, in
particular by facilitating secure closed-loop interaction directly between network elements to
satisfy management intent.

[scope of initial effort]
A complete solution for full autonomic networking would be a very ambitious goal. The scope of
this working group's effort for the initial stage is much more modest: it is to define a
minimum set of specific reusable infrastructure components to support autonomic interactions
between devices, and to specify the application of these components to one or two elementary
use cases of general value. 

[main goal]
The main goal of the ANIMA WG is therefore to develop common infrastructure components for
distributed functions. The infrastructure should be capable of providing the following
services to those distributed functions: 
o a common way to identify nodes
o a common security model
o a discovery mechanism
o a negotiation mechanism to enable closed-loop interaction
o a secure and logically separated communications channel
o a consistent autonomic management model

[preference for existing methods]
Where suitable protocols, models or methods exist, they will be preferred over creating new ones. 

[co-existence with traditional management]
It is preferred that autonomic functions would co-exist with traditional methods of management
and configuration, and the initial focus would be on self-configuration. Future work may include
a more detailed systems architecture to support the development of autonomic service agents.
The Anima working group will initially focus on enterprise, ISP networks and IoT. Like traditional
network management, the topological scope of autonomic functions is expected to be limited by
administrative boundaries.

[Potential-future-works-not-for-initial-stage]
Some in-scope topics are intentionally not included in the initial goals as they are
considered separate matters that should be considered later, although they are in the scope 
for discussion with lower priority:
o Mechanism for distributing policy intent to autonomic nodes
o Use of data analytics by autonomic nodes
o Other external information sources
o System-wide integration of autonomics


[specific goals]
The goals of this working group are below. The were selected to according to the analyzed 
technical gaps in draft-irtf-nmrg-an-gap-analysis: 
o Definition of a discovery and negotiation protocol for autonomic functions
o Definition of a solution to bootstrap a trust infrastructure 
o Definition of a solution for a separated Autonomic Control Plane

Each proposal should have its own motivation and complete workflow as autonomic process. 
The design of these proposals should clearly target to be reusable by other use cases.
The WG will verify all proposed solutions to make sure the components are reusable, 
necessary and sufficient.

In addition, autonomic service agents will need to be defined to solve specific use cases. 
They should reuse the common autonomic networking infrastructure defined by this working
group. The working group will initially consider a simple example as a test case for further work. 

o Definition of solution for IPv6 prefix management within a network

A second simple example may be added by agreement with the Area Director.
  
It is essential that these components and solutions fit together as an integrated whole.
For this reason, an overview document will be developed in parallel with the individual
specifications.

The initial set of work items is limited to the above list to stay focused and avoid
"boiling the ocean". Additional documents concerning other autonomic infrastructure 
components, policy intent, use cases or autonomic service agents are strongly encouraged,
as individual submissions, or as submissions to the IRTF Network Management Research
Group, but are not planned as working group deliverables for now. No additional work
items will be accepted without re-chartering. 


Milestones

Nov 2014 - WG formation and adoption of initial drafts
           - Mar IETF 92nd - 
Apr 2015 - adoption of solution draft(s) 
Jun 2015 - WGLC for discovery and negotiation protocol
           - Jul IETF 93rd - 
Aug 2015 - submit discovery and negotiation protocol to IESG (standards track)
Aug 2015 - adoption of overview draft
Oct 2015 - WGLC for trust bootstrap draft
Oct 2015 - WGLC for solution draft 
           - Nov IETF 94th - 
Dec 2015 - submit trust bootstrap draft to IESG (standards track)
Dec 2015 - submit solution draft(s) to IESG (standards track)
Jan 2016 - WGLC for autonomic control plane draft
Jan 2016 - WGLC for overview draft
           - Mar IETF 95th - 
Apr 2016 - submit autonomic control plane draft to IESG (standards track)
Apr 2016 - submit overview draft to IESG (informational)
Jul 2016 - recharter if needed, or close