Notes from the ANIMA Call
11 Sep 2014, 6am GMT

Attendees
Bing Liu, Brian Carpenter (part time), Dan Romascanu, Dimitri P., Laurent Ciavaglia, Sheng Jiang, Yu Fu, Michael Behringer (notes)

Notes
Sheng prepared v9 of the charter. Presented his current view on things. 

List of items where we have not consensus:
1) Methodology of this working group
Two different approaches at the moment, bottom up and top down. 

2) Selection of use cases
At which step do we plan the working group? What should be the first use cases? 

3) Common infrastructure components
Sheng: We should first work on those components, BEFORE working on use cases. 

Michael: Do we agree on infrastructure versus autonomic service agents? 
Yes. (no objection) 

Dimitri: We have service agents that exchange information. Use case driven approach. Sheng is a communication driven approach. 
Brian: Misunderstanding. Approach in proposed charter, we need to first understand communication layer. 
Dimitri: Communication is part of current charter, there are different modes. Negotiation for example. 
Laurent: The current negotiation proposal is just one proposal. But there are many potential solutions. 
Michael: The charter doesn't say the current draft is the chosen one. 
Laurent: Yes, but the boundary conditions are not clear. It is not clear which the requirements are for such a protocol. 
Sheng: Yes, but this should be the job of the working group, to define precise requirements, and work out a proposed protocol. 
Dimitri: Differnt means to translate negotiation requirements to protocol. If we don't have a broad overview we may go down the wrong track. Might end up in an open protocol. 
Brian: Completely agree. 
Michael: Problem statement seems to be: Do we describe the requirements BEFORE the charter or once we are chartered? 
Laurent: We need to be explicit that the charter is about functionalities, and it's the job of the working group to translate this into protocols. 
Sheng: This will take too long. 
Michael: Can we start with the simple communication methods, and expand as needed? 
Dimitri: master-slave, consensus based, gossip, and other mechanisms. That needs to be settled before we do the work. The charter must allow this. 
Dan: Can include in charter about infrastructure functional requirements. There should be a general requirements doc. 
Michael: ADs didn't want to start with a lengthy requirements process. 
Dan: Need an intermediate state. 
Dimitri: Charter needs to include "validate use cases against architecture". NMRG docs are a good starting point. Validation is key. Should have had an autonomic model document. Like for intserv/diffserv. 
Michael: Can we not start with a simple unicast negotiation method? 
Laurent: Need to worry about oscillation on a higher level. 
Dimitri: Need to work on use cases to derive requirements. Determine the use cases you need to determine this. Need a broad set of use cases to define boundaries (not requirements). We should select use cases by area, for example bootstrap. We need three areas. 1) Bootstrapping (self-configuration), 2) self-protection and 3) open, on self-healing for example. 
Sheng: So far no reporting area. There are many areas to work on. We don't know them yet. 
Dimitri: We DO know them. Self-* features. 
Laurent: The self-* features are in. 
Michael: Need to document the different viewpoints. 