Autonomic Networking Integrated Model and Approach (ANIMA)
----------------------------------------------------------
Current Status: Proposed WG

Assigned Area Director:
  Benoit Claise

Mailing list
  Address: anima@ietf.org
  To Subscribe: http://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/anima
  Archive: http://www.ietf.org/mail-archive/web/anima/

Charter:

[background] 
Autonomic Networking focuses on self-management of network elements. An autonomic 
function works in a distributed way across various network elements, but allowing
central guidance and reporting, and co-existence with non-autonomic methods of management.
Elements of autonomic functions already exist today, for example IGP routing protocols
such as OSPF, although its initial configuration process is not autonomic.  However, all
such functions have their own discovery, transport, messaging and security mechanisms as
well as non-autonomic management interfaces.

[previous work] 
To transform the somewhat abstract Autonomic Networking concept into concrete, realisable
requirements, the first stage, undertaken in the Network Management Research Group (NMRG)
of the IRTF, was to define terminology and design goals, and to derive a high-level gap
analysis. The definitions and design goals, as well as a simple architecture model are
defined in draft-irtf-nmrg-autonomic-network-definitions; the gap analysis for AN is
described in draft-irtf-nmrg-an-gap-analysis. The UCAN BoF at IETF 90 discussed use
cases and some existing solutions. All the above work serves as a baseline for this working
group.

[problem statement]
Certain network functions are today implemented in a distributed way, and new distributed network functions keep being developed. Currently, every distributed function defines its own way to identify nodes, to communicate, discover and negotiate between nodes, and to secure the interactions: There is no common infrastructure for distributed functions. Consequently, network admins are required to define and configure node identities, security schemes, etc, for each distributed mechanism seperately. And vendors need to implement parallel mechanisms for similar tasks. This leads to inefficiencies.  

[goal]
The goal of the ANIMA WG is to develop a common infrastructure for distributed functions. This infrastructure should provide the following services to those distributed functions: 
o a common way to identify nodes
o a common security model
o a discovery mechanism
o a negotiation mechanism
o a secure and logically separated communications channel
o a consistent autonomic management model

[preference for existing methods]
Where suitable protocols, models or methods exist, they will be preferred over creating new ones. 

[co-existence with traditional management]
It is recognized that autonomic functions
will co-exist with traditional methods of management and configuration, and the initial
focus will be on self-configuration. Future work may include a more detailed systems
architecture to support the development of autonomic service agents. The Anima working
group will initially focus on enterprise, ISP networks and IoT.


The goals of this working group are below. The documents listed are not exclusive and alternatives may be proposed: 
o Definition of a generic discovery and negotiation protocol for autonomic functions
  Starting point: draft-jiang-config-negotiation-protocol
o Definition of a solution to bootstrap a trust infrastructure 
  Starting point: draft-pritikin-bootstrapping-keyinfrastructures
o Definition of a solution for a separated Autonomic Control Plane
  Starting point: draft-behringer-autonomic-control-plane

In addition, autonomic service agents will need to be defined to solve specific use cases. The
working group will initially consider one or two simple examples as test cases for further work. 

o Definition of solutions for one or two selected use cases
  Starting points: draft-use-case-tbd1&2

It is essential that these components and solutions fit together as an integrated whole.
For this reason, an overview document will be developed in parallel with the individual
specifications.

The initial set of work items is limited to the above list to stay focused and avoid
"boiling the ocean". Additional documents concerning policy intent, other autonomic
infrastructure components, use cases or autonomic service agents are strongly encouraged,
as individual submissions, but are not planned as working group deliverables for now
 No additional work items will be accepted in the working group without re-chartering. 


Milestones

Nov 2014 - WG formation and adoption of initial drafts
           - Mar IETF - 
Apr 2015 - adoption of draft-solution-tbd1&2
Jun 2015 - WGLC for draft-generic-discovery-negotiation-protocol
           - Jul IETF - 
Aug 2015 - submit draft-generic-discovery-negotiation-protocol to IESG (standards track)
Aug 2015 - adoption of draft-anima-overview
Oct 2015 - WGLC draft-keyinfrastructure-bootstrap 
Oct 2015 - WGLC draft-solution-tbd1&2
           - Nov IETF - 
Dec 2015 - submit draft-keyinfrastructure-bootstrap to IESG (standards track)
Dec 2015 - submit draft-solution-tbd1&2 to IESG (standards track)
Jan 2016 - WGLC draft-autonomic-common-control-plane
Jan 2016 - WGLC draft-anima-overview
           - Mar IETF - 
Apr 2016 - submit draft-autonomic-common-control-plane to IESG (standards track)
Apr 2016 - submit draft-anima-overview to IESG (informational)
Jul 2016 - recharter if needed, or close


