Autonomic Networking for a better Internet Manageability and Adaptability (ANIMA) WG
-------------------------------------------------------------------------



[Context]

As more and more devices, with different functions and needs, keep being added to 
the Internet, the complexity and cost of managing and operating communication networks 
become more and more problematic.

Network operators are facing great challenges on a daily basis to ensure the stability,
robustness and performance in an environment where protocols operate independently, by 
different means and where human/off-line control usually compensates for these "limits".

More importantly these protocols have been designed to realize objectives which are 
sometimes difficult to combine or reconcile. Again human/off-line control compensates 
for these "limits". 

This motivates the introduction of new mechanisms to help synchronizing these processes
 and coordinate their actions such that the sum of existing functionality moves beyond 
the sum of their individual capability.

These mechanisms can be grouped under the 4A principle: Automation, Adaptation, Autonomy
 and Abstraction. Automation can be motivated by the fact that programs are more 
proficient in realizing systematic and exhaustive tasks than humans. Adaptation as 
anomalies and attacks are constantly detected, Autonomy as each event has its specifics 
which translate into different local actions and Abstraction to enable coordination 
between heterogeneous equipment.

Such properties characterize Autonomic Networking (AN) which aims at maximizing the 
gain in operational/control logic while minimizing the infrastructure change. 

The ANIMA WG aims at assessing and documenting the level and process of the 
transformation and homogenization of the Internet infrastructure.




[Problem statement]

A series of problems stems from the situation described above, touching the complete 
network (functions) lifecycle: e.g. the manual, labour-intensive device/network 
installation, the fragile, script-dependent OAM connectivity, the inconsistent/
incompatible/silo-ed operations of network services, the per-device orchestration 
due to lack of network-wide OAM interface to services, etc.

Most of network functions are today implemented in a distributed way, and new distributed 
network functions keep being developed. Currently, every distributed function defines 
its own way to identify nodes, to communicate, discover and negotiate between nodes, 
and to secure the interactions: there is no common infrastructure for distributed 
functions. Consequently, network administrators are required to define and configure node 
identities, security schemes, etc, for each distributed mechanism separately. Vendors 
need to implement parallel mechanisms for similar asks. This leads to inefficiencies. 
Additionally, central configuration, management and optimisation of operational device
 configurations are expensive, tedious, and prone to human error. A simple example is 
assigning address prefixes to network segments in a large and constantly changing 
network. Similarly, repair or bypassing of faults requires human intervention and 
causes significant down time.

Network processes perform independently on different views/partial information and by 
different means while interactions among their constituting entities take place at 
different spatial scales (from local to global). These processes also operate in the 
dark as the information to which they get access to/store is mostly limited to the 
one translating local protocol state(s) at current time. Finally, these processes 
have been designed to realize specific objectives which are often difficult to combine 
and reconcile preventing in turn the realization of more complex tasks (and involving 
multiple processes). Nowadays, the only mean to compensate these limits is to involve 
manual intervention/off-line control.  

This motivates the introduction of a control paradigm where network processes, 
driven by objectives (or intent), coordinate their local decisions, autonomously 
translate them into local actions, and adapt them automatically according to various 
sources of information including external information and protocol information bases.
This paradigm which mainly relies on closed-loop adaptive control is referred to an 
autonomic networking.

One of its simplest forms has been documented in [NMRG_01] where an information processing 
agent (IPA) is collocated with the set of protocol engines it drives. An IPA processes 
the input selected from external information sources and protocol information bases in 
cooperation with other IPAs, to derive states (information needed to make a decision now 
or in the future) and translate them into local actions (i.e., local policies). 

Numerous realizations of this paradigm are nevertheless possible, and the issue of its 
integration with existing non-autonomic mechanisms counterparts remains open.

 

[Challenges and objectives]

Autonomic networking is by definition transverse to the various networking dimensions. 
Therefore, numerous challenges exist. The main challenges identified are listed as follows:

-Which information dissemination model(s) is/are missing preventing self-configuration/
orchestration to operate?

-Is integration of autonomic mechanisms going to be "per node and cross-function" or 
"per-function and cross-nodes" or a combination? How to keep commonality among different 
functions (as they are by definition serving different purposes)?

-Do autonomic networking aims at modifying the boundaries of current autonomous systems? 
Or running across routing partitions or not, administrative partitions or not? 

-Are the inputs to the autonomic process limited to the information protocols currently 
with or other sources of information are also in scope (example: feeding 'automatically' 
routing decision process with traffic monitoring or forwarding monitoring)?

-As use cases are numerous and diverse, can inter-agent protocol primitives be unified and 
can agent functionality be factorized? And, as anticipating all protocol needs is out of 
reach, these protocols (more generally AN components) shall be reusable and flexible enough 
to avoid redesign on per-case basis.

-Different "cooperation modes" between IPA's can be considered from slave-master-slave to 
consensus; hence, would one cooperation mode fit all needs?

-How should the information source selection and orchestration of actions (sequencing of 
instructions to protocol engines) be designed to enable agents to be self-sufficient?

The main challenge becomes then to determine if a layout comprising agents and discovery/
negotiation/interaction among them would enable achieving the overall objective set by the 
introduction of autonomic networking concepts.



In order to address these challenges, the main goals of the ANIMA WG are: 
1) To provide guidelines and recommendations how to design/enhance/extend current and 
future IETF protocols with autonomic networking capabilities, and to provide examples/
evaluations of such protocols.

2) To provide a set of mutually consistent protocol specifications showing the utility 
and feasibility of a common, reusable and extensible AN infrastructure. 

These two goals will allow the working group to evaluate the functional and performance 
gains generated by introducing and generalizing the use of autonomic networking technologies
 in the Internet to its manageability and adaptability.






[Scope and approach]

The ANIMA working group will initially focus on (but is not limited to) the enterprise/SOHO, 
ISP and IoT networks. 

The ANIMA working group will cover the four conventional areas of self-management: configuration,
 protection, healing and optimization, and aims to be equally applicable to the complete 
network (functions) lifecycle (e.g. installation, commissioning, operating, etc).

The initial configuration/bootstrap phase is recognized as a key initial area of investigation 
for the working group.

A non-exhaustive list of currently identified application domains is provided hereafter. 
A process for collecting and updating the set of domains of potential applicability will be 
initiated at or before the working group creation. 
In particular, the working group is interested in cross-domain use cases highlighting limitations 
of current protocols or practices such as: correlation of measurements from different domains, 
policy consistency verification among different network functions, network and service “layers” 
chaining aspects, inter-functions/agents coordination model/protocol(s)

List of application domains:
-Zero-touch secure bootstrap.
- Assign IPv6 prefixes / IPv4 pools
- Detection of SLA Violations
- Microwave Mobile Backhaul
- Risk Aware Routing
- Path (segment) monitoring: this concerns all monitoring probes configuration (sampling rate) 
and placement inline with the routing decision (and it would be interesting to confront how 
autonomics would help automating/adapting such task with current practices).
- Traffic anomaly detection, routing anomalies detection (diagnostic out of a large set of 
information) which could help configuring ACL, routing adjacencies or others.
- AQM parameters (re)configuration out of traffic measure. 
- Shared risk (hidden risk) detection out of routing/topological information analysis, the 
output of such process should prevent that protecting routing path fail together with their 
primary path or that an alternate path fails right after its selection due to delay in 
propagation of routing information.



Approach:
Recognizing the extent of the challenges and associated risks, the working group is willing 
to adopt an original, hybrid approach to address the problem statement by combining:

1) A bottom-up approach. The bottom-up approach will be the mean to trial and consolidate 
the (ongoing) design on mature/stable functionality before moving to the next level of 
complexity. This approach will progress function by function, in an iterative manner, to 
simplify one aspect of networking (such as security) at a time, in a coherent way (cf. 2)),
 to really create a "unified self-managing" network.
The progress will be evaluated against the AN design goals of factorization, distribution, 
and unification to ensure the alignment with the design and specifications of the common AN 
infrastructure /control plane. Some refinement, adaptation or re-engineering might occur 
during the process to meet the above requirements.

The selection of the "test" use case or functionality will be made in the first round of 
adoption of the working group initial drafts. The process, criteria, metrics, etc. remain 
to be specified.



2) A top-down approach. In its ultimate form, the very concept of autonomic networking is 
proposing a profound change in the control and operating model of the Internet protocols. 
The goal of the top-down approach is to evaluate and document the utility and feasibility 
of a common AN infrastructure following the design goals of factorization, distribution, 
and unification. The top-down approach can be decomposed as follows:

- Step 0 (before start of WG): Functional areas where the working group agrees to contribute 
(risk mitigation/avoidance, re-configuration/-programming, etc.) by providing at least one 
representative use case per functional area. 

- Step 1: Evaluation work of AN components (orchestration execution/realization of decisions, 
etc.), distributivity needs (exchange of information from external sources, exchange between 
AN agents, etc.) and cooperation modes against representative set of use cases

Goals: evaluate AN components against representative set of use cases and layout design of 
lightweight and reusable AN components

- Step 2: ACP, a.k.a. common AN infrastructure, specification (in particular, cross-function 
single AN vs. cross-element multi AN) following the design goals of factorization, distribution, 
and unification required across use cases; determine if protocol functionality already "available" 
in other/existing protocol (with/without extensions) or new protocol(s) could be needed.

Goals: show the utility and feasibility of a common AN infrastructure (put/articulate AN 
components together across use cases)

- Step 3: Depending on the outcome of step 2, extensions of existing protocols, new protocol 
design/specification, etc. will be considered.
 


[Milestones][TBD]

Nov. 2014 - WG formation and adoption of initial drafts
Mar. 2015 - Adoption of uses cases evaluation and analysis draft 
Nov. 2015 - WG Last Call of uses cases evaluation and analysis draft 
Jan. 2016 - Adoption of ACP Functional specification draft
Mar. 2016 - WG Last Call of ACP Functional specification draft
Jun. 2016 - Adoption of protocol component specification(s) drafts
Nov. 2016 - WG Last Call of protocol component specification(s) drafts
Nov. 2016 - ACP architecture (informational)
Nov. 2016 - Recharter or close


[Related IETF WG and IRTF RG]

- I2RS WG
- Homenet WG
- SFC WG
- Other WG (TBD)
- NM RG
- NFV RG (TBC)


[Background information}

Autonomic networking refers to the self-managing characteristics of distributed network 
elements, adapting to unpredictable changes while hiding intrinsic complexity from operators 
and users. It often involves closed-loop control. An autonomic function works in a distributed 
way across various network elements, but allowing central guidance and reporting, and 
co-existence with non-autonomic methods of management. Elements of autonomic functions already 
exist today, for example aspects of IGP routing protocols such as OSPF, although their initial
 configuration process is not autonomic. However, all such functions today have their own 
discovery, transport, messaging and security mechanisms as well as non-autonomic management 
interfaces. The general objective of this working group is to enable the progressive introduction 
of autonomic behaviours into operational networks, as well as reusable autonomic network infrastructure.

To transform the somewhat abstract Autonomic Networking concept into concrete, realisable 
requirements, the first stage, undertaken in the Network Management Research Group (NMRG) of 
the IRTF, was to define terminology and design goals, and to derive a high-level gap analysis. 
The definitions and design goals, as well as a simple architecture model are defined in [NMRG_01]; 
the gap analysis for AN is described in [NMRG_02]. The UCAN BoF at IETF 90 discussed use cases 
and some existing solutions. All the above work serves as a baseline for this working group.


[References]

[NMRG_01] M.Behringer et al, Work in Progress, draft-irtf-nmrg-autonomic-network-definitions.

[NMRG_02] S. Jiang et al, Work in Progress, draft-irtf-nmrg-an-gap-analysis.

